shallfs
-------

shallfs is a Linux kernel module which logs any operation which may cause
modifications.  This includes file writes, create/delete/rename, but also
metadata change (access and modification time, permissions, POSIX ACLs,
extended attributes).  Versions for other operating systems may be made
available in future.

The module does not, by itself, manage any files; it must be given an
"underlying filesystem" specified using the "fs" mount option, where the
data will actually be; shallfs will just log operations and pass them along.

The shallfs filesystem requires a block device where the operation log is
kept (this is referred to as the journal or the event log).  When not mounted,
the device can be accessed directly, and utilities such as "shallfsck" (check
and repair) and "readfsck" (read and print/save logs) help with that; before
using a device with shallfs it must be prepared using mkshallfs.  For
convenience, interface programs allow to say "mkfs -t shallfs" instead of
"mkshallfs" and "fsck -t shallfs" instead of "shallfsck"; however such
interface scripts by necessity limit command line options to what is
understood by "mkfs" and "fsck": if required, use the programs directly.

Direct access to the underlying filesystem, without being logged by shallfs,
is normally possible by using the appropriate path; for example, after:

    mount -t shallfs -o fs=/real_home /dev/shallfs-device /home

Any file access under /home will log each operation and then "forwards" it
to the corresponding file under /real_home; however file access directly
to files under /real_home is permitted and won't be logged; care must be
taken as operations such as renames may result in an inconsistent state
if done directly on the underlying filesystem, as shallfs may have the
old path in its memory buffers: this in itself will not result in data
corruption, however accessing files via an unexpected path may have
undesirable results.

Under Linux, it is possible for a mounted filesystem to completely hide
another one, so it is possible to prevent direct access to the underlying
filesystem by mounting shallfs over it:

    mount -t shallfs -o fs=/home /dev/shallfs-device /home

After this, any operation under /home will log the operation to the device
specified, and then do the operation on the "real" /home, which will be
whatever appeared in /home before the mount.  In other word, any user
program will not observe any difference between the access to /home
before and after the mount (except possibly for a delay if the device
becomes full and the logs must be saved elsewhere and cleared).  Note
however that any files open on /home before the mount will still refer
to the underlying filesystem directly, only opens after the mount will
refer to the filesystem as mediated by shallfs (and this also explains
why it works: the module does a lookup on the underlying filesystem
just before the mount completes, and uses that as a start directory for
the operations it forwards, which means that they all automatically use
the correct filesystem, no matter where it's mounted).

IT IS ABSOLUTELY ESSENTIAL THAT THE UNDERLYING FILESYSTEM DOES NOT HAVE
HARD LINKS TO DIRECTORIES except for the system-generated "." and ".."
entries in each directory.  Most of the code assumes that there is a
direct correspondence between filesystem paths and directory inodes, and
a hard link to directories will change that by having multiple paths to
the same directory inode.  Consequences of this range from unexpected
paths to data corruption and in extreme cases to system deadlock.  Note
that the kernel itself does not guarantee correct operation in the presence
of hard links to directories, so this isn't a bug we are likely to ever
consider fixing.

Note that program execution on a shallfs filesystem currently does not
work because mmap() is not implemented (scripts using an interpreter may
work as long as the interpreter is loaded from another filesystem).
A future version will implement read/exec only mmap(), which is sufficient
for programs and shared libraries, however it is unlikely that writable
mmap() will be implemented as it makes it impossible to log changes.

