shallfsck
---------

If a device is not unmounted properly, the kernel module will automatically
recover it so that the state is the same as the last commit.  If the device
is damaged, this recovery may succeed but it may also fail: in this case,
use the shallfsck program to attempt recovery.  If all else fails, you'll
have to rebuild the device using mkshallfs (or "mkfs -t shallfs") which
means the old logs will be lost.

The program can be called using "fsck -t shallfs" and therefore can run
automatically before local filesystems are mounted; in this case, it will
do the same consistency checks and recovery as the kernel module, but it
will not attempt more advanced recovery: run the program manually for that.

shallfsck accepts the following options:

-a
    Same as "-p", for backward compatibility with other fsck programs.
    Incompatible with "-f", "-n" and "-y".

-b number-of-superblocks
    The total number of superblocks; if provided, this must be the same
    number as given to the mkshallfs program when the device was set up
    (or as modified by tuneshallfs).

-C fd
    Prints progress information on the given file descriptor in a format
    suitable for use by other programs; if "fd" is 0, the output will be
    on standard output in human-readable format.

-f
    Force full consistency check of all superblocks, even if the device
    looks like it has been unmounted correctly and is marked clean.
    Incompatible with "-a" and "-p".

-l superblock
    Try the given superblock instead of guessing.  This is useful if
    the device has a large number of superblocks but you know that a
    particular one is valid.

-n
    Do not make any changes to the device, instead just report what would
    be done to correct any problems. Incompatible with "-a", "-p" and "-y".

-p
    Run the same limited functionality as the initial fsck on boot, i.e.
    only recover devices which could be recovered automatically by mounting.
    Incompatible with "-f", "-n" and "-y".

-y
    Run full repair without asking any questions.  Default is to ask before
    doing anything heavy.  Incompatible with "-a", "-n" and "-p".

