tuneshallfs
-----------

This program allows to change the device format options and/or the device
size.

tuneshallfs accepts the following options:

-a alignment
    Change log alignment; no data will need to be copied just to change
    this number, old logs will remain with the old alignment, and any new
    logs will have the new alignment.

-b number-of-superblocks
    Change the number of superblocks; some data may need to be copied when
    this number changes, and the program will do that automatically.

-C [fd]
-c [fd]
    Prints progress information on standard output.  Useful when the program
    needs to copy data to perform the action requested.  The optional "fd"
    specifies a file descriptor other than standard output: in this case,
    the format will be different and more suitable for reading from another
    program.

-l
    Show current values without changing anything.  Incompatible with
    any other option.

-n
    Do not make any changes to the device, instead just report what would
    be done and how much data will need to be copied.

-r new-size
    Resize the journal to use the specified size, which must not exceed
    the capacity of the device; if the number is zero, the new size is
    calculated from the device size to use as much space as possible;
    if "-b" is not specified, the new value for "-b" is calculated to
    store as many superblocks as will fit. The program will almost certainly
    need to copy data to complete this operation.

-t seconds
    Maximum time between checkpoints; increasing the time may make the
    operation slightly faster, but it will make restart (with "-u") slower.
    Checkpoints may happen more often if the program determines that it is
    not safe to continue without a checkpoint. Default is 10 seconds.

-u
    If the program is interrupted in the middle of copying data, the
    filesystem cannot be mounted or recovered until the operation is
    completed: this option asks to complete a previously started operation.
    The only other options which can be specified together with "-u" are
    "-c"/"-C" and "-n".

